---
date: 2024-06-01T11:13:32-04:00
description: "How to translate business needs into actionable tasks?"
featured_image: "/images/AI.png"
tags: [Education & Work]
title: "Internship: Product Proposition Intern at Versuni (Philips DA)"
---
Keywords: App, AI, Technology, Product/Project Management, Marketing, Startup Category, Fast-Paced Environment, Product Strategy

In May 2024, I completed a 10-month internship at Versuni (Philips Domestic Appliances). As the only member apart from the category leader, this internship was filled with challenges and opportunities for growth. <!--more--> During this period, I had the privilege of following the development cycle of entry-level robot vacuum cleaners, delving into various aspects of product management, marketing strategy, and enhancing user experience. This experience contributed to significant milestones for the category and provided me with valuable experience and lessons.

## Strategic Development and Roadmap Formulation
A highlight of my internship was the opportunity to develop comprehensive strategies, roadmaps, and marketing toolkits for entry-level products. We used the "STP" model (Segmentation, Targeting, and Proposition) as the core for business case research. Initially, we conducted market research, analyzed competitors' product portfolios, and regional consumer purchasing trends, evaluating our strengths, weaknesses, and existing resources. This led to expanding the matrix with both high-end and low-end products. Tailoring marketing language and strategies to match the brand and product tone ensured our marketing materials effectively conveyed the intended message to customers.

I was also responsible for creating sustainable packaging, user manuals, and quick guides for products. Through the sustainable packaging project, I realized the importance of sustainability, which was one of the reasons I later joined the Sustainable Research program at the University of Amsterdam. Collaborating with our user researcher to create user manuals and quick guides made me realize the necessity of thinking outside our product team's perspective. While we know our products inside out, users do not, and we must approach it from the assumption that users know nothing. This experience applied not only to creating user manuals and quick guides but also to daily communication. Providing all information clearly and concisely, never assuming recipients already know everything, is crucial. Ensuring consistency of information among everyone in the corporate world, especially in large companies, is one of the most challenging aspects. To facilitate smooth collaboration, we should provide background information and specify who needs to know further details. Using images and bullet points makes emails easier to understand. This experience encouraged me to persist in explaining tasks through detailed emails, and many colleagues told me that I am the easiest person to work with.

## Driving Sales and Market Understanding
As part of the business department, we played a crucial role in product development and sales. We closely collaborated with markets, acting somewhat as internal sales representatives. Coordinating the supply chain with the market, encouraging them to increase orders to meet sales goals, required us to handle their challenges, enhancing my ability to coordinate and calmly explain under pressure. This included coordinating supply chain strategies, meticulous market analysis, and proactive communication with stakeholders to ensure alignment and timely execution of goals.

## Data Analysis and Product Presentations
Data analysis and product presentations were pivotal during my internship at Versuni. Compared to my experience at Hanshow, I learned how to persuade stakeholders using data. As part of the business department, we not only organized annual internal product events to convince sales from various regions to purchase our products but also conducted product demonstrations with retailers. As an intern, I had the privilege of preparing the 2023 internal launch event with the category leader and independently conducting product demonstrations for small-scale retailers. Through these experiences, I honed my ability to think from others' perspectives, creating more persuasive and engaging presentation materials. From the experience of facing client and market challenges, I learned to maintain a smile, keep calm, and maintain a positive attitude under pressure to ultimately achieve goals.

## Driving Innovation: AI Voice Project
One of the most exciting projects I led was the AI voice project for robot vacuum cleaners. In a tight timeframe of just 4 months, I independently collaborated with external agencies and markets to provide voice alerts in over 30 languages. This project not only required excellent project management skills but also highlighted the importance of effective stakeholder communication and flexible problem-solving abilities in a dynamic environment.

## User Experience Transformation: Crisis Management
During the internship, I faced a critical challenge in improving the user experience of the Philips HomeRun App. In just 4 months, I led efforts to increase the app rating from 1.3 to 4.4. This involved conducting face-to-face interviews, analyzing user feedback and competitor research, and closely collaborating with R&D to swiftly address critical issues. Introducing a rating pop-up notification significantly increased the number of ratings from 1,000 to 20,000, resulting in a substantial improvement in the app's rating accuracy. My technical background and knowledge of communication studies played a crucial role in this process.

## Reflection and Future Aspirations
Reflecting on my internship experience, it was not just about gaining practical experience in product management and marketing, but also a profound journey that changed my enthusiasm for innovation, data-driven decision-making, and enhancing user experiences. Practical projects and responsibilities have equipped me with valuable skills and insights.
